+++
title = "On Guillotine Separability of Squares and Rectangles"
authors = "Arindam Khan, Madhusudhan Reddy Pittu"
paper_link = "https://drops.dagstuhl.de/opus/volltexte/2020/12650/"
publication_details = "APPROX-2020: International Conference on Approximation Algorithms for Combinatorial Optimization Problems, 2020"
conference_date = "2020-08"
notes = ""
+++

<b>Abstract:</b>
Guillotine separability of rectangles has recently gained prominence in combinatorial optimization, computational geometry, and combinatorics. Consider a given large stock unit (say glass or wood) and we need to cut out a set of required rectangles from it. Many cutting technologies allow only end-to-end cuts called guillotine cuts. Guillotine cuts occur in stages. Each stage consists of either only vertical cuts or only horizontal cuts. In $k$-stage packing, the number of cuts to obtain each rectangle from the initial packing is at most $k$ (plus an additional trimming step to separate the rectangle itself from a waste area). Pach and Tardos [Pach and Tardos, 2000] studied the following question: Given a set of $n$ axis-parallel rectangles (in the weighted case, each rectangle has an associated weight), cut out as many rectangles (resp. weight) as possible using a sequence of guillotine cuts. They provide a guillotine cutting sequence that recovers $1/(2 log n)$-fraction of rectangles (resp. weights). Abed et al. [Fidaa Abed et al., 2015] claimed that a guillotine cutting sequence can recover a constant fraction for axis-parallel squares. They also conjectured that for any set of rectangles, there exists a sequence of axis-parallel guillotine cuts that recovers a constant fraction of rectangles. This conjecture, if true, would yield a combinatorial $O(1)$-approximation for Maximum Independent Set of Rectangles (MISR), a long-standing open problem. We show the conjecture is not true, if we only allow $o(log log n)$ stages (resp. $o(log n/log log n)$-stages for the weighted case). On the positive side, we show a simple $O(n log n)$-time $2$-stage cut sequence that recovers $1/(1+log n)$-fraction of rectangles. We improve the extraction of squares by showing that $1/40$-fraction (resp. $1/160$ in the weighted case) of squares can be recovered using guillotine cuts. We also show $O(1)$-fraction of rectangles, even in the weighted case, can be recovered for many special cases of rectangles, e.g. fat (bounded width/height), $\delta$-large (large in one of the dimensions), etc. We show that this implies $O(1)$-factor approximation for Maximum Weighted Independent Set of Rectangles, the weighted version of MISR, for these classes of rectangles. 

